
<!--                            < Static Links >                             -->

[FAQ]: ../../FAQ/Overview
[Tips & Tricks]: ../Overview
[Scripts]: ../../Scripts/Overview
[Build]: ../../Build/Overview
[Contribute]: ../../Contribute/Overview


<!--                             < Navigation >                              -->

##### 「 [FAQ] 」 『 [Tips & Tricks] 』 『 [Scripts] 』 『 [Build] 』『 [Contribute] 』

---


<!--                             < FAQ Links >                               -->

[CWLs]: https://github.com/texstudio-org/texstudio/tree/master/completion
[User Manual]: https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/texstudio-org/texstudio/blob/master/utilities/manual/usermanual_en.html#CWLDESCRIPTION
[Contribute CWLs]: ../../Engage/CWL
[Settings]: Settings


<!--                               < FAQ >                                   -->

## CWL Files

**CWL** stands for `Completion Word List`.

The format was originally used in **Kile** and<br>
defined commands in the auto-completer.

**TeXStudio** uses an extended version of **CWL** to include additional<br>
semantic information and allow for cursor / placeholder placement.

---

### Uses

- Extends auto-completion
- Command definitions (`\usepackage` dependent)
- Semantic information like `\ref` references

---

### Creation

**TeXStudio** ships `.cwl` files for most [Common Packages][CWLs].

If a packages `.cwl` file cannot be found, **TeXStudio**<br>
tries to auto-generate it from the given `.sty` file.

Naturally, auto-generation is not perfect and `.cwl` files can supply<br>
more information, like marking commands as citations so they can<br>
be handled like `\cite` for auto-completion and citation checking.

You can use your own `.cwl` files by placing them in the settings directory.

Check the [User Manual] for the format specification.

You can also [Contribute CWLs] for not yet included packages.

---

### Location

**TeXStudio** comes with [Built-In][CWLs] `.cwl` files.

**CWL** files are searched for in the folloing places:

###### Versions > 2.10.8

- [Settings]`/completion/user`
- **Built-In**
- [Settings]`/completion/autogenerated`

###### Older Versions

- **Built-In**
- [Settings]

---

### Loading

Every time you use the `\usepackage` command,<br>
the corresponding `.cwl` file is loaded for the<br>
current document.

You can also statically link files in `Options › Completion`.

###### Early TeXStudio

Early versions used to only allow for statical linking,<br>
now just `tex.cwl` is activated in this way (by default).
